Okay so in this video I want to talk to editors who are scared that they are going to get replaced by AI and let them know that it is absolutely not true.


What AI will do is it's going to make the gap between bad and good editors even bigger. Editors who are in the top 1% are not thinking like editors anymore; they're thinking like creative directors and they're implementing all the storytelling principles and their editing specifically for the audience of the client that they're editing for.


What AI will enable them to do is automate all the repetitive and boring tasks and have more time for creative decisions. Not only that but AI without good creative direction doesn't produce good outputs. So your skills as an editor in this case is to give this creative direction to AI.


That's why you want to reach the top 1% of editors as soon as possible, just because if you don't then you're cooked. Just because AI is going to genuinely replace all the editors who are just mechanically pressing buttons and editors who are running on the hamster wheel right now who are not developing their creative skills and who are just on the race to the bottom, they will suffer even more.


Now I will also share in this video how I am using AI myself in real-world editing examples.


First things first is their client DNA builder. I use AI to create custom brand guidelines for my clients and not only that but to then also as I'm editing videos for my clients to ask about certain decisions, for example what sound effect style should I use? Give me some search terms for this specific sound effect that I need to use in the video that will fit my client's vibe and style, or the same thing for music or for design.


If I'm creating a graphic and I'm not sure which colors to use then I'm just going to go ahead and ask AI based on the creative direction that I give it.


The key with this to get actually a good output out of AI is that you need to give it context. And that context is your creative thinking.


What I literally do is I would brain dump everything into AI and tell it why I have these thoughts going through my head and all of that is based from my creative thinking.


For example I'll say "I used this one genre of music but it doesn't really fit at this specific section just because it is a bit too unstructured and a bit too noisy. I think the music needs more structure but at the same time this music that has more structure and some sort of beats, it doesn't fit because of this reason."


Or the same thing with colors. I would say something like "I need to use different colors but then it completely goes against my client's brand guidelines and I'll ask it to give me some creative solutions."


Literally I was able to create this graphic for example. I try to use a bunch of different colors but it just didn't work; it didn't look great and then AI came up with an idea to use opacity instead and keep everything red which looks so much better and also it told me to make shapes a circle instead of squares.


The next thing how I use AI personally is research. The best thing you can do as a video editor is to actually use the real things that the client is talking about in the video instead of making them up. And this is where so many editors make this mistake of just either completely skipping this process, not doing the research and not putting anything in the video, not adding that vital context to the viewer. So the video just ends up not making sense to the viewer or they go ahead and send 100 messages to the client asking them for resources that they can find themselves. And research with AI is so much easier. The exact tool that I use for research is Perplexity.ai just because it's really good at research. Like you can see here for example, I found a bunch of Instagram reels and this perfect YouTube video of what my client is talking about that I could never have found by myself. And it took me like two minutes.


btw, Client DNA builder that I was talking about before is this lead magnet that I have. So we should plug the lead magnet there. Yeah this video is going to be a fucking banger.