Alright Claude, yeah so based on those two memos that I recorded for Thiago and Luca yesterday and also the sales call that I had with Suni, I started realizing that genuinely this creative director thing is kind of what I've been thinking all along.


Even right now I'm working on the vlog on https://www.youtube.com/@editorartem and Kirill the editor is trying to edit it but it's like he just doesn't have this vision of creative direction. It's sort of my bad just because my instructions weren't good enough and they weren't in depth enough. But you can tell that he just doesn't have it. It's hard to explain this, it's like you need to have this vision to develop the ability to see things from your perspective: "Is this actually interesting to the viewer? Should I just remove this? Why is it this way? Why can't we make it the other way? That's gonna be more interesting to the viewer."


So all these things and I don't know, this creative director thing is like I also the main theme of full-time editor but at the same time I'm not sure how good about it. Right now it's on my mind and it's just bothering me because I don't know what to do with it. It's such a huge realization and it I mean it definitely should be in the content somewhere and potentially even yeah I'm gonna be working on a curriculum of full-time very soon probably like in a few in a month or so and potentially I should make just becoming a creative director the main big idea of full-time editor. Because it's so true how Sunni said that I'm not just an editor I'm a creative director. It just all clicked for me. These are the things that I exactly teach inside Full-Time Editor like "Okay, we don't just want to be putting animations for the sake of putting animations. We want to be viewing things from the viewer's perspective. We want to be doing all the storytelling stuff - storytelling is basically being a creative director."


It's just oh I all of these concepts are like spinning in my head and I'm trying to understand how it all works but I can't just put my finger on it and so it drives me crazy.